# KordEx 1.5.2-RC1

This release targets Kord `0.8.0-M9`, the latest stable release for Kord. We've been waiting for this one for some time - it's nice to get something new out there for you!

**A note about Maven repos:**

Please be aware that as of this release, the following Maven repos are no longer being mirrored by the Kotlin Discord Maven server:

* Bintray: Exposed, KenjiOhtsuka Kord, KTor
* Google
* Maven Central
* Sonatype Snapshots

You'll need to update your buildscripts to correspond with these changes. If you run into any trouble, you can always take a look at [the KordEx template project](https://github.com/Kord-Extensions/template) again.

**Highlights of this release:**

* KordEx is now licensed under the Mozilla Public License. It previously used The MIT License, but I felt that this was a little too weak.
* Rewritten converter function syntax, which now uses a DSL instead of a function call. This makes things overall much cleaner, and allows us to add additional features to the argument system easily. Speaking of which...
* Command arguments now support `mutate { }` and `autoComplete { }` (for slash commands) options. Additionally, validation now uses `validate { }`, which uses an API that's much closer to how checks work elsewhere.
* Improvements to application command registration, including not trying to remove commands that were already removed via a batch update.
* Easier disabling of components, optional locking for guild member requests, Sentry support for scheduled tasks, and the removal of the requirement for paginator page groups to have the same number of pages.
* Extra utilities, such as better names for timeout-related fields, an async start function that launches, convenience single-action functions for modifying Members quickly, easy functions for supplying maps to autocomplete interactions, and more!
* An early version of a dynamic plugin loading system. Because you can't get at classes from loaded plugins, this currently is limited in usefulness, but we'll be expanding upon it later on.
* A myriad of bug fixes and new translations.
* **Mappings Extension:** Support for Quilt Mappings, Hashed Mojmap and slash command autocomplete for MC versions.
* **Phishing Extension:** Better filtering, redirect support and usage of the Sinking Yachts websocket for instant domain list updates.

At the moment, [the wiki](https://kordex.kotlindiscord.com/) hasn't been updated for these changes. Unfortunately I lack the time to update them quickly, but they'll get there!

As always, if you run into any problems, please let us know!
