# KordEx 1.6.0

This release targets Kord `0.12.0`, the latest stable release for Kord. Hot off the presses for those of you who rely on stable releases!

**Highlights from this release:**

- Transitioned to a new Discord server. You can also now [support development via Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/gsc)!
- Began work on [a new documentation site with Writerside](https://docs.kordex.dev). You can find the source [in its own repository](https://github.com/kord-extensions/docs).
- We now use Kotlin 1.9.20 and Java 17, and you should too.
- We've updated a bunch of dependencies. Read more in the [libs.versions.toml](https://github.com/Kord-Extensions/kord-extensions/blob/v1.6.0/gradle/libs.versions.toml) file.
- Created an experimental `ChangeSet` type, used to compare voice states. We need feedback on this!
- Introduced extra first-party data adapters, such as the MongoDB data adapter.
- An in-development custom plugin system to better meet KordEx's needs.
- A generic interaction context type to support more generalised code.
- A paginator mutation system, allowing for changes to pages, paginators and paginator components.
- New checks that match the bot application's owner and team roles.
- New supported locale: Korean by Penta0308.
- Many small fixes, quality-of-life features and updates that aren't large enough to detail here.

**Community Contributions:**

- #200 by DeDiamondPro - More select menu types.
- #201 by NoCommend and sschr15 - Convert mappings extension configuration to storage units.
- #211 by Lukellmann - Fix breaking changes from Kord Kotlin/JS support.
- #212 by Lukellmann - Fix compilation error caused by source-incompatible Kord change.
- #222 by ADudeCalledLeo - Allow slash command groups and subcommands at the same level.
- #243 by sschr15 - Update Linkie and add 3 new namespaces.

As always, if you run into any problems, please let us know!
