# Internationalisation

Internationalisation (hereafter i18n) is an important consideration for many applications. If you're catering to a
global audience, then it's important to think about how you might provide translated messages for your users - and
to format things like dates in the format they expect.

As there's nothing comparable in the Kotlin multi-platform ecosystem, KordEx makes use of Java tooling when working
with translations. Specifically, translations are collected into `.properties`-based resource bundles, and parsed
using the [ICU Message Format](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/format_parse/messages/). Messages are
referenced using a **translation key**, usually a string containing alphanumeric identifiers separated with dots (`.`).

## Accessing Translations

You can make use of translation keys in the following contexts, and they'll be translated automatically:

* Command names and descriptions
* Command argument descriptions (but not names)
* `Message.respondTranslated()` extension function provided by `MessageCommandContext`

Additionally, shortcuts for translating strings yourself exist:

* In `CommandContext` and `EventContext`, which have a `translate` function

You can also make use of the bot's translations provider via Koin, using the `TranslationsProvider` interface.

??? important "Translations are optional"
    In some situations - for example, during initial testing or if you're working on a bespoke bot - it may not be
    necessary (or even desirable) to include translations. In these cases, you can ignore that translations exist and
    just type the text you want instead.

**Note:** If a translation key is missing from your translations bundle, it will be used verbatim instead. Make sure
you test your bots after you've set up translations!

## Working With Translations

There are multiple approaches you can use when writing translation-friendly code:

* Write the code without thinking about translations, and move the strings into your translations after everything is
  working
* Write the code with translations in mind by using translation keys from the start, and create translations for them
  as you go, or after everything else works
  
Whichever approach you take, you'll need to come up with a set of translation keys. These should be descriptive string
identifiers, which help you understand where they're used and what they're used for.

* **Good:** `extensions.posts.create.embed.title`
* **Bad:** `title`

You'll also need to create a translation bundle.

## Translation Bundles

Translation bundles are sets of `.properties` files with a matching prefix, stored within a common directory in your
bot's resources - specifically, the `translations` directory. Bundles are represented by a string name, and they should
always contain at least two parts, split with a dot (`.`). If you're writing an extension, override the `bundle`
property with the name of your bundle and the `Context`-based convenience functions will make use of it automatically.

For simple bots and extensions, we recommend using the project name and `strings` - so if your project is named 
"posts", you could use `posts.strings`. This will correspond with `.properties` files starting with `strings`, in
`translations/posts` in your bot's resources.

Translations files include the locale they contain translations for in their name, split by underscores. In our
example, a translations file containing French (France) would be named `strings_fr_FR.properties`. A more general
French translations file may be named `strings_fr.properties` instead.

These names directly correspond with Java `Locale` objects - a Locale object created via `Locale("en", "gb")` would 
correspond with a file named `strings_en_GB`, for example. Ultimately, it's up to the bot developer to decide what
Locale objects to use - you should document which locales you support, and provide a way for your users to contribute
translations.

**Note:** Default translations should always be in English, as this is the locale the bot will use if no other locale 
is specified. You should place your default translations in a file that doesn't include a locale code - in our example,
this would simply be `strings.properties`.

## Formatting and Replacements

As mentioned earlier, translations should use the 
[ICU Message Format](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu/userguide/format_parse/messages/). This allows for very
flexible message formatting, allowing for locale-aware insertion of variables, among other things. While we suggest
you read the linked document for a deep dive into the format, we'll cover the basics below.

The first thing to be aware of is the `.properties` file format. Properties files contain simple key-value pairs, like 
the following:

```properties
permission.addReactions = Add Reactions
permission.administrator = Administrator
permission.all = All Permissions
```

String values may be split among multiple lines, by ending the line with a backslash (`\`) character and moving to the
next line. Spaces will be trimmed from either side of each line, and the line breaks will not be preserved in the 
string - you can use a normal line break sequence (`\n`) to include one. It's common to see the newline-with-line-break
pattern (`\n\`) in some translation files for this reason.

```properties
extensions.help.error.missingCommandTitle = Command not found
extensions.help.error.missingCommandDescription = Unable to find that command. This may be for one of several possible reasons: \n\
  \n\
  **»** The command doesn't exist or failed to load\n\
  **»** The command isn't available in this context\n\
  **»** You don't have access to the command\n\
  \n\
  If you feel that this is incorrect, please contact a member of staff.
```

Additionally, messages may contain tokens to be replaced. Tokens reference the items in the`replacements` array that
can be passed into all translation functions, by their index - starting a `0`. A simple variable insertion looks like
the following:

```properties
paginator.footer.page = Page {0}/{1}
paginator.footer.group = Group {0}/{1}
```

Given an array like that returned by `arrayOf(1, 3)`, this would result in a string like `"Page 1/3"`. However, there
are several more advanced ways to format the given replacements.

### Number Formatting

**Note:** Custom formats are usually not necessary - the appropriate format for the locale should be used 
automatically.

* **Auto:** `{0, number}`
* **Integer:** `{0, number, integer}`
* **Currency:** `$ {0, number, currency}`
* **Percent:** `{0, number, percent}%`
* **Custom format:** `{0, number, ###,###.###}` (this uses [Java's DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html))

### Date Formatting

**Note:** Custom formats are usually not necessary - the appropriate format for the locale should be used
automatically.

* **Auto:** `{0, date}`
* **Short:** `{0, date, short}`
* **Medium:** `{0, date, medium}`
* **Long:** `{0, date, long}`
* **Full:** `{0, date, full}`
* **Custom format:** `{0, date, dd/MM/yyyy}` (this uses [Java's SimpleDateFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html))

### Time Formatting

**Note:** Custom formats are usually not necessary - the appropriate format for the locale should be used
automatically.

* **Auto:** `{0, time}`
* **Short:** `{0, time, short}`
* **Medium:** `{0, time, medium}`
* **Long:** `{0, time, long}`
* **Full:** `{0, time, full}`
* **Custom format:** `{0, time, kk:mm:ss}` (this uses [Java's SimpleDateFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html))

### Advanced Numeric Formatting

* **Duration:** `{0, duration}` - Used when you want to format a number as a simple duration - for example, `123`
  becomes `2:03` in English (123 seconds is 2 minutes and 3 seconds)
* **Ordinal:** `{0, ordinal}` - Used when you want to append an ordinal suffix to a number - for example, `3` becomes
  "`3rd`" in English
* **Spellout:** `{0, spellout}` - Used when you want to format a numeric value as text - for example, `100` 
  becomes `"one hundred"` in English
  
**Note:** Just like the other formats, you can include a custom format string by adding a comma (`,`) and the string.
This makes use of [the ICU RuleBasedNumberFormat class](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu-docs/apidoc/released/icu4j/com/ibm/icu/text/RuleBasedNumberFormat.html).

### Selections

Selections can be used to specify a different translation based on a string provided in the `replacements` array. THis
can be useful when dealing with languages that have different words based on the gender of a person - assuming you have
access to that information. For example:

```properties
actions.chop.tree = {0, select,\
  female { She }\
  male { He }\
  other { They }\
  } chopped down the tree.
```

### Pluralisation

When you have a variable number of something, you should pluralize only when necessary. For example:

```properties
actions.chop.tree = They chopped down {0} {0, plural,\
  =1 { tree }\
  other { trees }\
  }.
```

### Advanced Nesting

When working with selections and pluralisation, you can also nest other replacement tokens inside their content. For
example:

```properties
actions.chop.tree = {0, select,\
  female { She chopped down {1} {1, plural, =1 { tree } other { trees }} }\
  male { He chopped down {1} {1, plural, =1 { tree } other { trees }} }\
  other { They chopped down {1} {1, plural, =1 { tree } other { trees }} }\
  }
```

The above example isn't the best way to structure the given string - it's just a contrived example. See if you can
figure out a better way to format it - you should be able to do it without nesting tokens!
