# 1.3.x to 1.4.x

Version 1.4.x contains a huge number of changes, encompassing thousands of lines of code and over 90 changed files! It
contains many QoL improvements, a rewritten paginator, support for slash commands, and several other features.

That said, we couldn't avoid breaking quite a few things during this release cycle. We've detailed the big changes
below, but we still advise that you give a quick read over the rest of the documentation as well.

## Bot Creation & Usage

ExtensibleBot is no longer configured using constructor parameters - instead, it provides a builder-pattern DSL for you
to use, which also allows you to configure Kord's cache and add extensions. For more information on what exactly you 
can configure, [see the Bot concept page](/concepts/bot).

### 1.3.x

```kotlin
val bot = ExtensibleBot(
    addSentryExtension = false,
    handleSlashCommands = true,

    koinLogLevel = Level.DEBUG,

    prefix = "!",  // This is now the default prefix
    token = System.getenv("TOKEN"),
)

bot.addExtension(::TestExtension)

bot.start {
    intents {
        +Intents.all
    }

    presence {
        playing("!help for command help")
    }
}
```

### 1.4.x

```kotlin
val bot = ExtensibleBot(env("TOKEN")!!) {
    koinLogLevel = Level.DEBUG

    extensions {
        sentry = false

        add(::TestExtension)
    }

    intents {
        +Intents.all
    }

    presence {
        playing("!help for command help")
    }

    slashCommands {
        enable = true
    }
}

bot.start()
```

Additionally, the bot has gained the `findExtension<T>()` and `findExtensions<T>()` functions, allowing you to search
for loaded extensions that match the given type - for example, to find the loaded extension that implements the new
`HelpProvider` interface.

## Checks

* Additional [checks](/concepts/checks) have been added, along with support for the new interaction events that are made
  use of by slash commands. The newly-bundled checks allow you to
  [ensure that users have (or do not have) specific permissions](/concepts/checks#members).
* All checks that concern specific entities have been rewritten to take either a DSL-style lambda that resolves to the
  entity, or a `Snowflake` that will later be resolved to that entity. This change has been made in order to allow
  extensions to be set up before the bot connects to Discord, and to improve extension registration times. For more
  information on this, [see the checks concept page](/concepts/checks#creating-reusable-checks).
  
### 1.3.x

```kotlin
event<MessageCreateEvent> {
    check(inGuild(config.guild))
  
    action { 
        // ...
    }
}
```

### 1.4.x

```kotlin
event<MessageCreateEvent> {
    // One or the other:
    check(inGuild { config.guild })
    check(inGuild(config.guildId))
  
    action { 
        // ...
    }
}
```


## Commands

In order to make room for slash commands, the commands system has had somewhat of an overhaul. This includes the
following:

* `Command` and `CommandContext` have been rewritten and are now generic base classes. Message-based commands now use
  the `MessageCommand` and `MessageCommandContext` classes, and slash commands similarly make use of the
  `SlashCommand` and `SlashCommandContext` classes.

* The `signature` and `parse` functions used in command bodies have been removed. You can still set a custom signature
  string in the usual way, though, if you must - but this will result in a loss of information in some cases.

* To specify your `Arguments` subclass builder, you now pass it as the first parameter to the `command`, `group` or
  `slashCommand` function. This will automatically generate the command's signature, and the command's arguments will
  always be automatically parsed and placed within the `arguments` property of the current
  `MessageCommandContext` in the command's `action` body.

* `ParseException` has been renamed to `CommandException`, to better reflect the fact that you can throw it when you
  need to.

### 1.3.x

```kotlin
command {
    name = "post"
    description = "Create a post"

    signature(::PostArguments)

    action {
        // Option 1
        val parsed = parse(::PostArguments)

        message.respond(
            "**${parsed.title}** (by ${parsed.author.mention})\n\n" +
                parsed.body
        )

        // Option 2
        with(parse(::PostArguments)) {
            message.respond(
                "**$title** (by ${author.mention})\n\n" +
                    body
            )
        }
    }
}
```

### 1.4.x

```kotlin
command(::PostArguments) {
    name = "post"
    description = "Create a post"

    action {
        // Option 1
        message.respond(
            "**${arguments.title}** (by ${arguments.author.mention})\n\n" +
                arguments.body
        )

        // Option 2
        with(arguments) {
            message.respond(
                "**$title** (by ${author.mention})\n\n" +
                    body
            )
        }
    }
}
```

## Command Arguments & Converters

Some major changes have been made to [arguments](/concepts/commands#command-arguments) and
[converters](/concepts/converters) as well, in order to facilitate slash commands and provide extra information in the
command help output.

* All arguments defined in your `Arguments` subclasses require a description string. This should be a very short,
  human-readable string that explains what each argument is for. Argument descriptions are used in the bundled help
  extension, and they're shown on Discord as part of slash commands.

  Note that, for slash commands, **optional arguments must always be specified as the last arguments for the command.**

* Most converter types now implement the `SlashCommandConverter` interface, which provides the `toSlashOption`
  command. All converter types (aside from `MultiConverter`) must implement this function, which makes the converter
  work as a slash command argument. As Discord's available argument types are lacking, please note that in many cases
  you'll want to tell Discord that your converter is a string converter.

  Parsing does not change for this purpose - you should continue to implement converters in the usual manner.

* Coalescing and optional converters now support an additional `shouldThrow` parameter. This parameter should be used to
  specify that the converter should throw an exception (which may be a `CommandException`) when they fail to parse an
  argument from the list given to them.

  This is intended only for arguments that appear as the last argument in the list for a command, where the argument may
  be omitted but validation still needs to happen for its arguments. Defaulting converters do not support this
  parameter.

* Compiler errors (via opt-in annotations) have been added for converter functions that return a wrapped converter that
  changes the behaviour of the converter being wrapped. This has been done to try to help avoid problems caused by users
  directly making use of these functions instead of the relevant `Arguments` class extension functions, which can result
  in converters being filled incorrectly, the wrong converters being registered, and a myriad of other strange problems.

  If you're writing your own `Arguments` class extension functions, feel free to opt-in to these annotations at the file
  level. You'll need to be able to use these functions to write a full suite of extension functions for your own
  converters.

* `NumberConverter` has been replaced with `IntConverter` and `LongConverter`, in case you happen to need ints instead
  of longs. Please note that Discord only supports integer converters, even if you're using a `LongConverter` in your
  slash command arguments - you'll still get a `Long`, but it's not currently known whether slash commands can 
  actually support numbers that large.

* All converters that support durations are now equipped with a nice long error message if the user supplies an invalid
  duration, which will be displayed as appropriate. If you'd rather stick with a short, single-line error, you can
  supply a `false` value for the new `longHelp` parameter for the relevant converter functions. The long error looks
  like this - the short error will simply use the first line:
  
  > (for an invalid unit) Invalid duration unit specified: `x` <br/>
  > (for a missing unit) Please specify a unit - bare numbers are not supported.
  > 
  > <span style="text-decoration: underline">How to use durations</span>
  > 
  > Durations are specified in pairs of amounts and units - for example, `12d` would be 12 days.
  > Compound durations are supported - for example, `2d12h` would be 2 days and 12 hours.
  > 
  > The following units are supported:
  >
  > **Seconds:** `s`, `sec`, `second`, `seconds` <br/>
  > **Minutes:** `m`, `mi`, `min`, `minute`, `minutes` <br/>
  > **Hours:** `h`, `hour`, `hours` <br/>
  > **Days:** `d`, `day`, `days` <br/>
  > **Weeks:** `w`, `week`, `weeks` <br/>
  > **Months:** `mo`, `month`, `months` <br/>
  > **Years:** `y`, `year`, `years`

### Example: Argument descriptions

```kotlin
class PostArguments : Arguments() {
    // Single required string argument
    val title by string("title", "Post title")

    // Single required Discord user argument
    val author by user("author", "User that this post should be attributed to")

    // Consumes the rest of the arguments into a single string
    val body by coalescedString("body", "Text content to be placed within the posts's body")
}
```

### Example: `toSlashOption`

```kotlin
public class IntConverter(
    private val radix: Int = 10
) : SingleConverter<Int>() {
    // ...

    override suspend fun toSlashOption(arg: Argument<*>): OptionsBuilder =
        IntChoiceBuilder(arg.displayName, arg.description).apply { required = true }
}
```

## Moved Converters

Some converters have been moved to separate modules:

* [Java Time](/modules/java-time):
  * `Duration` (Java Time) with special-casing for coalescing conversion

## Integrations

An additional integration for `Koin` has been added. Koin is a lightweight service locator framework, written in pure
Kotlin. It's been gaining in popularity due to its simplicity and low performance overhead, and we've decided to
support it in order to make things easier to locate and work with.

Koin is fully integrated, and you're expected to use it to retrieve references to different parts of the framework. For
more information, we suggest you[read the documentation for it](/integrations/koin).

## Internationalisation & Localisation

KordEx now has full support for i18n! For more information, [read the new i18n page](/concepts/i18n).

## Paginator

For those of you that were making use of the included (but undocumented) Paginator class, it's been completely rewritten
with support for page groups, embed formatting, dynamic footers, and several other features.

As the original Paginator was undocumented (and not _really_ meant to be used in production), we haven't written a
specific migration guide for it. Instead, we suggest you [read the documentation for it](/utilities/paginator) and
rewrite your paginator usages to match the new API.

## Provided Extensions

Both of the bundled extensions have been updated to support the new KordEx features available in recent versions. Their
package has also changed to make room for extension-specific interfaces.

* The `HelpExtension` has been updated to add support for command argument descriptions, using the richer page groups
  available in the rewritten paginator. You can click the :information_source: reaction under help embeds to learn more
  about the displayed commands' arguments.
  
  Additionally, all custom help extensions must now implement the `HelpProvider` interface. This makes it easy for other
  extensions to, for example, display the help for their command when required.

  As slash commands (and their arguments) show their own help strings directly on Discord, the help extension does not
  support them.

* The `SentryExtension` has been updated to add a `/feedback` global slash command, which works just like the
  `feedback` message command. If an error occurs during processing of a slash command (and the Sentry extension is
  enabled), users will be prompted to make use of `/feedback` instead of the `feedback` message command.

## Utilities

Many utilities have been created or rewritten during this release cycle. Instead of detailing each change here, we
recommend you [read the documentation for them](/utilities/general).
